you
this lecture is about how to use
generative probabilistic models for text
categorization there are in general are
two kinds of approaches to text or
categorization by using machine learning
one is generating probably some models
the other is discriminating approaches
in this lecture we're going to talk
about the generative models in the next
lecture we're going to talk about
discriminative approaches so the problem
of text categorization is actually very
similar to talk in the classroom in that
we assume that each document belongs to
one category or one cluster main
difference is that in cutting we don't
really know what are the predefined
categories or what are the clusters in
fact that's the goal of text clustering
and we want to find such clusters in the
data but in the case of categorization
we are given the categories so we kind
of have predefined categories and and a
based on these categories and training
data who would like to allocate a
document to one of these categories or
sometimes multiple categories but
because of the similarity of the two
problems we can actually depth talk in
the clustering models for text
categorization or we can understand how
we can use generative models to do text
the categorization from the perspective
of clustering and so this is a slide
that we've talked about before about
text clustering where we assume there
are multiple topics represented by word
distributions each topic is at one
cluster so once we estimate such a model
we faced in the problem of deciding
which cluster talk unity should belong
to and this question boils down to
decide which theta I has been used to
generating now suppose he has our words
present represented as X I here now how
can you compute the probability
that a particular topic water
distribution theory I has been used to
generate this document well in general
we use baseball to make this inference
and you can see this prior information
here that we need to consider if topic
or cluster has a higher prior than it's
more like that the documents being from
this cluster so we should have favored
such a cluster the other is a likelihood
part it's this part and this has to do
with whether the topic water
distribution can explain the content of
this document well and we want to pick a
topic that's high by both values so more
specifically we just multiply them
together and then choose which toppika
has the highest product so more
rigorously this is what we would be
doing right so we're going to choose the
topic of that with a maximize this
posterior probability of the topic given
the document against posterior because
this this one p of zi is the prior
that's our belief about which topic that
is more likely before we observe any
document but this conditional
probability here is the posterior
probability of the topic after we have
observed the document a theme and a base
water that allows us to update this
probability based on the prior and I
have shown the details below here you
can see how the prior here is related to
the posterior
on the left-hand side and this is
related to how well this word
distributing explains the document yeah
and the two are related in this way so
to find that the property that has the
highest posterior probability here it's
equivalent that to maximize this product
as we have seen also multiple times in
this course
and we can then change the probability
of document in your product of the
probability of each word and that's just
because we've made an assumption about
independence in generating each word
okay so this is just something that you
have seen in document Katherine and we
now can see clearly how we can assign a
document to a category based on the
information about word distributions for
these categories and the prior on these
categories so this idea can be directly
adapted to the categorization and this
is precisely what naive Bayes classifier
is doing so here it's mostly the same
information except that that we are
looking at the categorization problem
now so we assume that if theta I
represents category I accurately that
means the world distribution
characterizes the content of documents
in category I accurately then what we
can do is precisely like what we did for
text clustering namely we're going to
assign document to the category that has
the highest probability of generating
this document in other words we're going
to maximize this posterior probability
as well and this is related to the prior
and the likelihood and as you have seen
on the previous slide and so naturally
we can then decompose this likelihood
into a product as you see here now here
I change the notation so that we will
write down the product as product over
all the words in the vocabulary and even
if even though the document doesn't
contain all the words and the product is
there accurately representing the
product of all the words in the document
because of this count here and when a
word doesn't occur in the document the
count would be zero so this term will
just disappear
so effectively we're just
have the product over all the words in
the document so basically with naive
Bayes classifier we're going to score
each category for a document that by
this function now you may notice that
here involves the product of a lot of
small probabilities and this can cause a
underflow problem so one way to solve
the problem is to take logarithm of this
function which it doesn't change the
order of these categories but would help
us preserve precision and so this is
often the this is often the function
that we actually use to score each
category and then we're going to choose
the category that has the highest score
by this function so this is not a naive
Bayes classifier now the keyword abase
is understandable because we are
applying a Bayes rule here when we go
from the posterior probability of the
the topic to a product of the likelihood
and the prior now it's also called a
naive because we made an assumption that
every word in the document is generated
independently and this is indeed a naive
assumption because in reality they are
not generated independently once you see
some word in other words were more
likely occur for example if you have
seen a word like a text then that makes
categorisation or clustering more likely
to appear now if you have not seen text
but this is something allows us to
simplify the problem and it's actually
quite effective for many text
categorization tasks but you should know
that this kind of model doesn't have to
make this assumption we could for
example assume that words may be
dependent on each other so that would
make it a bigram name which model or a
trigram language model and of course you
can even use a mixture model to model
what the document that looks like in
each category so in nature they will be
all using Bayes rule to do
classification but the app to a
generative model for documents in each
category can vary and here we just
about the very simple case perhaps the
simplest case so now the question is how
can we make sure each is theta I
actually represents category I accurate
now in clustering we learned that this
category I or the word distribution is
for category I from the data but in our
case what can we do to make sure this
theta I represents indeed category I
well if you think about the question and
you're likely come up with the idea of
using the training data right indeed in
texture calculation we typically assume
that there are training they are
available and those are the documents
that are known to have been generated
from which category in other words these
are the documents with known categories
assigned and of course of human experts
must do that and here you see that
Chauhan represents the set of documents
that are known to have been generated
from category one and T two represents
the documents that are known to have
been generated from category two etc now
if you look at this picture you see that
the model here is really a simplified a
unigram language model it's no normal
mixture model why because we already
know which distribution has been used to
generate which documents there is no
incident in here there is no mixing of
different categories here so the
estimation problem of course would be
simplified but in general you can
imagine what we want to do is to
estimate these probabilities that I
marked here and what are the proper
villain is that we have to estimate in
order to categorization but there are
two kinds and so one is the prior the
probability of still high and this
indicates how popular each category is
or how likely we would have observed the
document in that category the other kind
is the water distribution and we want to
know what words have high
abilities for each category so the idea
then is to just use observe the training
data to estimate these two probabilities
and in general we can do this separately
for different categories that's just
because these documents are known to be
generated from a specific category so
once we know that it's in some sense
irrelevant what are the Caribbeans
we are also dealing with so now this is
a statistical estimation problem and we
have observed some data from some model
and we want to guess the parameters of
this model we want to take our best
guess of the parameters and this is the
problem that we have seen also several
times in this course now if you haven't
thought about this problem having seen
naive Bayes classifier it would be very
useful for you to pause the video for a
moment and to think about how to solve
this problem so let me state the problem
again and so let's just think about what
category one we know there is one water
distribution that has been used to
generate documents and we generate each
word in the document independently and
we know that we have observed a set of n
sub wom documents in the set of p1 and
these documents have been auto-generated
from category one namely have been all
generated using this same word
distribution now the question is what
would be your guess or estimate of the
probability of each word in this
distribution and what would be your
guess of the prior probability of this
category of course this Seconal
probability depends on how likely you
will see documents in other categories
right so think for a moment how do you
use all these training data including
all these documents that are known to be
in these K categories to estimate all
these parameters now if you spend some
time to think about this and it would
help you understand that the following
of your slides so to spend some time to
make sure that you can try to solve this
problem or do your best to solve the
problem yes
now if you have thought about it and
then you will realize the following two
issue first what's the basis for
estimating the prior or the probability
of each category well this has to do
with whether you have observed a lot of
documents from that category intuitively
if you have seen a lot of documents in
sports and very few in medical science
then your guess is that the probability
of a sports category is larger or your
prior on the category would be larger
and what about the basis for estimating
the probability of war in each category
well the same and you'll be just
assuming that words that are observed
the frequently in the documents that are
known to be generated from a category
will likely have higher opportunity and
that's just a maximum like a race male
indeed and that's what we could do so to
estimate the probability of each
category and to answer the question
which category is most popular then we
can simply normalize the count of
documents in each category so here you
see in sub I denotes the number of
documents in each category and we simply
just normalize these counts to make this
a probability in other words we make
this probability proportional to the
size of training that are set in each
category that's the size of the set T
sub I now what about the water
distribution well we do the same again
this time we can do this for each
category so let's say well consider in
category I or theta I so which word has
higher probability well we simply count
the word occurrences in the documents
that are known to be generated from sin
I and then we put together all the count
of the same word in the set and then we
just normalize these counts to make this
distribution of all the words make all
the probabilities of all these words sum
- Wow so in this case you can see this
is a proportional to the count of the
word in the collection of training
documents T sub I and that's denoted by
C of W and T sub I now you may notice
that we often write down a probability
estimate in the form of being
proportional to a certain number and
this is often sufficient because we have
some constraints on these distributions
and so the normalizer is dictated by the
constraint so in this case it will be
useful for you to think about that what
are the constraints on these two kinds
of probabilities so once you figure out
the answer to this question and you will
know how to normalize these counts and
so this is a good exercise to work on if
it's not obvious to you there is another
issue in naive Bayes which is a
smoothing
in fact the smoothing is a general
problem in all the estimate of language
models and this has to do with what
would happen if you have observed a
small amount of data so smoothing the
important technique to address there are
sparseness in our case the training data
set can be small and when they don't set
is small when we use maximum likelihood
estimator we often face the problem of
zero probability that means if an event
is not observed then the estimated
probability would be zero in this case
if we have not seen a word in the
training documents for let's say a
category I then our estimate would be
zero for the probability of this word in
this category and this is generally not
accurate so we have to do smoothing to
make sure it's not zero probability the
other reason for smoothing is that this
is a way to bring prior knowledge E and
in this is also generally true for a lot
of situations of smoothing when the data
set is small we tend to rely on some
prior knowledge e - to solve the problem
so in this case our priority says that
the know word should have zero
probability
so smoothing allows us to inject in the
supplier to make sure that nobody has a
real zero probability there is also a
third reason which is sometimes not very
obvious but we'll explain that in a
moment and that is to help achieve
discriminative weighting of terms and
this is also called IDF wedding emerge
document frequency weighting that you
have seen in mining world relations so
how do we do smoothing well in general
we added pseudo comes to this event to
make sure that no event has zero count
so one possible way of smoothing the
probability of category is to simply add
a small non negative constant data to
the count we pretend that every category
has actually some extra number of
documents represent by Tara and in the
denominator we also add K multiplied by
the other because we want the
probability to someone so into law we've
added there are K times because we have
K categories therefore in this sum we
have to also add K multiplied by the
other as a total solute consulate we add
2 to the estimate now it's interesting
to think about the influence of data
obviously Dara is a smoothing parameter
here meaning that the larger there is
and the more we will do smoothing and
that means more rely on sir accounts and
we might indeed ignore the actual counts
if they are is set to infinity
imagine what would happen if there are
approaches positive infinity
well we're going to say every word has
infinite amount of sorry not every word
every category has infinite amount of
documents and then there's no
distinction between them so it becomes
just a uniform okay what if there are
zero well we just go back to the
original estimator and based on the
observe the training data to estimate
the probability of each category now we
wouldn't do the same for the water
distribution but in this case
we sometimes we find it useful to use a
non-uniform zero counts for the world so
here you see we'll add a pseudo consul
to each word and that's mu multiplied by
the probability of the word given by a
background language model theta sub B
now that background model in general can
be estimated by using a large collection
of text or in this case we're going to
use the whole set of all the training
data to estimate this background
language model but we don't have to use
this one we can use larger text data
that are available from somewhere else
now if we use such a background language
model to add a pseudo count we'll find
that some words will receive more sit
accounts so what are those words well
those are the common words because they
get a higher probability by the
background language model so the pseudo
counts added for such words would be
high real words on the other hand will
have smaller single counts now this
edition of background model would cause
a non uniform smoothing of these or
distributions wouldn't it bring the
probability of those common words or to
a high level because of the background
model now this helps make the difference
of the probability on such words smaller
across categories because every category
has some help from their background for
words like the which have high
probabilities therefore it's no one was
so important that each category has
documents that contains such a lot of
occurrences of such work or the estimate
is more influenced by the background
model and the consequence is that when
we do categorization such words tend not
to influence the decision that much as
words that have small probabilities from
the background language model those
words don't get some help from the
background language model so the
difference would be primary because of
the differences of the occurrences in
the training documents in different
categories
you also see another smoothing parameter
mu here
which controls the amount of smoothing
and just like ideale
does for the other probability and you
can easily understand why we add new to
the denominator because that represents
the sum of all the pseudo counts that we
are for all the words right
so mu is also non-negative constant and
it's empirical set to the control
smoothing now there are some interesting
special cases to think about that as
well first let's think about when mu
approaches infinity what would happen
well in this case the estimate will
approach to the background damage model
will tend to the background language
model so we would bring every water
distribution to the same background
language model and that essentially
removes the difference between these
categories obviously we don't want to do
that the other special case is the thing
about the background model and suppose
we actually set the two uniform
distribution and it's a 1 over the size
of the vocabulary so each word has the
same probability then this smoothing
formula is going to be very similar to
the one on the top when we add Delta
because we're going to add a constant to
the common to every word so in general
in life base calculation we have to do
such a smoothing and then we'll do once
we have these probabilities then we can
compute the score for each category for
a document and then choose the category
with the highest score as we discussed
earlier now
it's useful to further understand
whether the knife based scoring function
actually makes sense so to understand
that and also to understand that why
adding a background model will actually
achieve the effect of IDF weighting plan
to penalize common words right so
suppose we have just two categories and
whether the score based on their ratio
of probability
right so this is let's say this is our
scoring function for two categories and
so this is the score of a document for
these two categories and we're going to
score based on this probability ratio so
if the ratio is larger is larger then it
means it's more likely to be in category
one so the larger the score is the more
likely the document is in category one
so use by use by using baseball and we
can write down this ratio as follows and
you have seen this before
now we generally take logarithm of this
ratio and to avoid small probabilities
and this would then give us this formula
in the second line and here we see
something really interesting because
this is our scoring function for
deciding between the two categories and
if you look at this function
we'll see it has several parts the first
part here is actually a log of prior
probability ratio and so this is the
category bias right it doesn't really
depend on the document
it just says which category is more
likely and that would will be the dam'
favor this category slightly I so the
second apart has a sum of all the words
right so these are the words that are
observed in the document but in general
we'll consider all the words in the
vocabulary so here we're going to
collect the evidence about which
category is more likely right so inside
of the Sun you can see there's product
of two things the first is the counter
of the world and this count of the world
serves as a feature and to represent the
document and this is what we can collect
it from the document
the second apart is the weight of this
feature here it's the weight of each
word that this weight tells us to what
extent the observing this word helps
contribute in our decision to put this
document in category one
I remember the higher the scoring
function is more like a rating category
one now if you look at the risk ratio
basically our sorry this weight it's
basically based on the ratio of the
probability of the word from each of the
two distributions essentially were
comparing the probability of the word
from the two distributions and if it's
higher according to Stata one then
according to the theta 2 then this
weight would be positive and therefore
it means when we observe such a word
we'll say that it's more likely to be
from category one and the more we
observe such a word the more likely the
document will be classified as zero
what if on the other hand the
probability of the word from Fira was
smothered and the probability of the
word from theta two then you can see
this weight is negative therefore this
is the neck negative evidence for
supporting category 1 that means the
more we observe such a word the more
likely the document is actually from
cear 2 so this formula now makes a lot
of sense right so we're gonna aggravate
all the evidence from the document we
take a sum over all the words we can
call this the features that we collected
from the document that would help us
make the decision and then each feature
has a weight that tells us how in does
this which you support category 1 or
support that will support the category 2
and this is estimated as the log of
probability ratio here in ninth base and
then finally we have this constant of
bias here so that that formula actually
is
a formula that can be generalized to
accommodate more features and that's why
I have introduced some other symbols
here so introduce a beta0 to denote the
bias and F I to denote each feature and
then beta sub I to denote the weight on
each feature now if we do this
generalization what we see is that in
general we can represent the document by
a feature vector F IFI here of course in
this case fi is the count of a world but
in general we can put any features that
we think are relevant for calculation
for example talking the lens or in a
fantasize or counts of other parents in
the document and then our scoring
function can be defined as a sum of a
constant beta 0 and the sum of the
feature weights over all the features so
if H F sub I is a feature value then we
multiply the value by the corresponding
weight beta sub I and we just take the
sum and this is your aggregate all
evidence that we can clamp from all
these features and of course there are
parameters here so what are the
parameters well these are the betas
these barrels are weight and with
appropriate the setting of the weights
then we can expect such a scoring
function to work well to classify
documents just like in the case of night
base we can clearly see naive Bayes
classifier is a special case of this
general class file actually this general
form is very close to a classifier
called logistic regression and this is
actually one of those conditional
approaches or discriminative approaches
to classification and women to talk more
about such approaches later but here I
want you to know that there is a strong
connection a close connection between
the two kinds of approaches and this
slide shows how naive Bayes classifier
can be connected to a logistic
regression and you can also see that in
discriminative classifiers that
tend to use a more general form on the
bottom we can accommodate more features
to solve the problem